* Brickwall: A simplistic firewall for use with desktops and laptops

Designed and written by June Tate-Gans <june@theonelab.com>.


*** Why another crazy firewall script?

Because everything else in the Debian firewall ecosystem is either too
GUI based, too heavy, or just plain over engineered for what a laptop
requires.

All I needed was the ability to set the firewall personality based
upon my Debian Lenny wpa_supplicant roaming configuration. The
ifupdown tools already provide a way to handle this natively, so I
just wrote this little script to give me some flexibility.

Also, I found uruk to be far too weird when it comes to
configuration. So that came into play, too.


*** How does it work?

Pretty simply, actually. Just do the following:

  - Throw the brickwall script into /usr/sbin
  - Add a symlink into /etc/network/if-up.d and /etc/network/if-down.d
    for it.
  - Add a symlink to the script from /etc/rc2.d to setup the tables
    cleanly at start up. No need for a kill script. Probably best to
    add this somewhere between priorities 00 to 40.
  - Add in some firewall-ports lines to the interfaces you want to have
    open ports on.

Simple, no? There's some other utility to the script as well. It
allows you to open and close ports on individual interfaces on a
temporary basis. To make these ports open or closed permanently, add
them to to the firewall-ports line for the interface stanza.


*** No, really, what is this `firewall-ports' thing?

Oh, all right, I'll give you the nitty-gritty. Just remember: you
asked for it.

Essentially the =firewall-ports= line is a simple specification to the
brickwall script of what incoming ports you want open or
closed. Outgoing and forwarded ports are always allowed -- there's
really little to no reason to use any other policy than that on a
laptop or desktop machine you have root on. If you want to control
those, you want a different package. Sorry -- I don't plan on
integrating those features as they're really not generally useful, and
would require more engineering to accomplish than it's worth (that
being said, patches are welcome! *nudge nudge wink wink*).

So, =firewall-ports= is a space-separated list of ports to allow or
deny, with allowed ports just listed normally, and denied ports
prefixed with a `-'. All ports must be listed in decimal notation,
with the exception of the special `all' port, which basically tells
brickwall to add a line that matches everything.

Port ranges may also be specified by separating two decimal numbers
with a single `-'. So to open ports 8000 to 9000, simply say
`8000-9000'. Closing those ports works the same as with individual
port numbers.

Note that order here is important! brickwall does an iptables append
for every port listed, so if you start the list by denying all ports,
you'll end up with a completely locked down system (until someone goes
and does a `brickwall open <iface> <port>' of course). Also note that
protocols are immaterial here -- brickwall assumes tcp and udp
always.

So for example, say we wanted to be open to the world, but block
incoming requests to a test web server running on port 8080. The line
for this would be:

  : firewall-ports -8080 all

If we wanted to do the inverse, say, deny everything but allow port
8080, we'd do the opposite:

  : firewall-ports 8080 -all

Of course, the `-all' could be left off, as the default policy for the
INPUT chain is set to DROP, but it's good to put it in there for
clarity. A slightly more complex example:

  : firewall-ports 80 -53 143 1-5 -10-15 all

This literally means the following:

  - Accept incoming requests on port 80, 143, 1 through 5, and
    everything not listed.
  - Deny incoming requests on port 53 and 10 through 15.

Nice and simple, no? iptables makes me smile. =o)


*** What's these additional abilities you mentioned earlier?

Ah, well, brickwall allows you to open and close ports on a temporary
basis for specific interfaces as well. Just do the following:

  : brickwall open <iface> <port>

Or

  : brickwall close <iface> <port>

Note that port must be a single port number -- ranges are not
supported here.


*** I've got more questions than I have answers.

That's not a question. =o)

Seriously, though, if you have any questions about it, send me an
email, or better yet: send an email to the discussion list
<brickwall-discuss@googlegroups.com> about it.


#+STARTUP: showall
Local Variables:
mode: org
End:
